What is SynthBox?

SynthBox is an ArchLinux-based audio production environment on a 
bootable CD, made using the Archiso utility.

Why another Linux audio production environment?

Why not?

But seriously, for the same reason there are a hundred custom Linux
kernels, four different JACK flavors, a googolplex of compressor
plugins, etc… Because they’re each tailored for a specific use case,
and they each reflect the tastes of their respective developers/
customizers.

So what is SynthBox’s use case?

In short: Imagine popping a USB stick into any old PC with a decent
Linux-compatible sound card, and turning it into a live performance
synth.

There are two main goals for SynthBox:

   1. To be able to boot a CD ot USB-stick into an audio environment
      tailored for live instrument synthesis, with as little fuss as is
      currently possible in the Linux Audio world. (Do you like how I
      qualified that?) To this end, the user account will be customized
      with sensible defaults that tie apps together in a semi-cohesive
      environment.
   2. To showcase the cutting edge of Linux audio software. This is why
      SynthBox is based on Arch Linux: Because it’s easy to turn source
      code into installable packages using pacman/makepkg (in fact the
      whole distro is based around this concept). So SynthBox will stay
      as true-to-upstream as I can keep it. This is also out of
      necessity, because I’m not much of a programmer, but I do know a
      bit about packaging/repositories/etc. from being a sysadmin.
      
But that sounds like an unstable OS… certainly not good for live audio
production, right?

Good point. To this end, there will be versions that are deemed stable
and versions that are not. Hopefully I’ll converge on a naming convention
that will make this clear. That’s sort of TBD.

I’m hoping the “liveCD” approach will make it easier to rate the stability
of each version. That is, if a user is running right from the ISO, I’ll
know exactly what they’re working with because user-customization will be
minimal. I would like to eventually use an overlay file system to allow
user settings (patches & whatnot) to be stored on a USB key. That’s
another one for the roadmap.

Running it

There will be iso links available, hopefully soon, which you can try.
Burn them to a CD using your favorite burning utility, or write them to
a USB stick using dd. Archiso’s images should with with either method.

Get the code

git clone http://github.com/seanbutnotheard/SynthBox.git

Building & Customizing

I recommend checking out the Archiso page on the Arch Wiki to get a
general sense of how an Archiso project works.  This project is slightly
different in that the make command is "make synthbox", though "make all"
will work too.


All the code I've written is licensed under the GPLv2.  There are some
files in here that came from other projects, which are all also under 
redistributable license.  I haven't yet taken note of the licenses of
all such files;  If you're an author of one of those files, please let
me know so I can get my attributions straight.  (This is my first
open-source project, so please go easy on me with regard to licenses.)
